# Welcome to GMX_RRCS

The gmx_rrcs script is designed to calculate the residues-residues contact scores (rrcs) from a trajectory file generated by GROMACS.



## Install

To install GMX_RRCS, simply run:

```bash
pip install gmx-rrcs
```

Requires Python version >= 3.9.

## File Formats

### Topology and Trajectory Files

We use the `MDAnalysis` library to read and process GROMACS trajectories. Therefore, the `--top_file` and `--traj_file` parameters accept file formats supported by `MDAnalysis`. Ensure that your input files conform to `MDAnalysis` format requirements. In our tests, there have been occasional issues with reading `.tpr` files, so we recommend using `.pdb` or `.gro` files as the input topology files for the `--top_file` parameter. For trajectory files, we recommend using the `.xtc` format. It is crucial to check the completeness and correctness of your protein and trajectory in the input files before running `gmx_rrcs` to ensure accurate results.

### Residue Pair Indices File

This file format is custom-defined. Each line specifies a pair of residue indices separated by the `$` symbol, where the content before `$` is the first member, and the content after $ is the second member. A simple example is as follows:

```
15 $ 28         ; This line defines a residue pair (15, 28), where the first member is residue 15 and the second member is residue 28.
```

The content after the` ;` character is considered a comment and will be ignored during parsing.

Multiple residue pairs can be specified on the same line by separating them with spaces:

```
15 16 $ 28      ; This line defines two residue pairs: (15, 28) and (16, 28).
```

Similrly, multiple residues can be specified for the second member:

```
15 $ 28 29      ; This line defines residue pairs (15, 28) and (15, 29).
```

Both members can specify multiple residues:

```
15 16 $ 28 29   ; This line defines residue pairs (15, 28), (15, 29), (16, 28), and (16, 29).
```

You can also specify a range of residues using the - symbol:

```
15-17 20 $ 28   ; This line defines residue pairs (15, 28), (16, 28), (17, 28), and (20, 28).
```

If a line does not contain the $ symbol, the residues on that line will pair with each other:

```
15 28 40        ; This line defines residue pairs (15, 28), (15, 40), and (28, 40).
```

The residue pair indices file allows multiple lines to define residue pairs:

```
15 $ 28
32 35 $ 10
46 $ 55 16
78 58 $ 98 61
99-102 $ 293-299
```

Regardless of the number of lines, they will all be merged into a single list of residue pairs. For GMX_RRCS, the residue pair indices file is not a required parameter. If you do not provide this file, GMX_RRCS will automatically generate a list of all possible residue pairs in the protein, which will significantly increase computation time. Hence, it is generally not recommended.